_posts: LND'S Deadline-Aware Budget Sweeper (#7)
morehouse/morehouse.github.io: _posts/2025-03-11-lnd-deadline-aware-budget-sweeper.md

---
layout: post
title: "LND's Deadline-Aware Budget Sweeper"
description: "Discussion about the benefits of LND's new approach to fee bumping commitment and HTLC transactions."
additional_authors: and Yong Yu
modified: 2025-03-11
tags: [lightning, security, lnd]
categories: [lightning]
image:
    feature: lnd_deadline_aware_budget_sweeper_header.png
---

Starting with [v0.18.0](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/releases/tag/v0.18.0-beta), LND has a completely rewritten *sweeper* subsystem for managing transaction batching and fee bumping.

> The new sweeper uses HTLC deadlines and fee budgets to compute a *fee rate curve* over which urgent transactions are fee bumped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new sweeper uses HTLC deadlines and fee budgets to compute a *fee rate curve*, dynamically adjusting fees (fee bumping) to prioritize urgent transactions.
```

Node implementers should tread carefully when touching these parts of the codebase and remember that simplicity is often the best security.

# Conclusion

LND's new deadline-aware budget sweeper provides more secure fee bumping in adversarial situations and more consistent behavior when mempools are rapidly changing.
Other implementations should consider incorporating budget awareness into their fee bumping strategies to improve defenses against replacement cycling and pinning attacks, and to reduce reliance on external fee estimators.

> At the same time, implementers would do well to avoid complete rewrites of the on-chain logic and instead keep the changes small and review them well.

Reviewer 2: 💯
